Add variability change for these functions. (#3610)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/functions.tex

\item
  For initialization of local variables of a function see \cref{initialization-and-binding-equations-of-components-in-functions}).
\item

>   Components of a function will inside the function with some exceptions behave as though they had discrete-time variability, see \cref{discrete-time-expressions} for details.

Reviewer: Below, it is said that inputs behave as if they were evaluable. Maybe we should just drop this item now that the rules are becoming more complicated?

Author: I think we still need that due to size-handling.

\item
  For initialization of local variables of a function see \cref{initialization-and-binding-equations-of-components-in-functions}).
\item

>   Components of a function follow special variability rules, see \cref{discrete-time-expressions} for details.
>   In particular the annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents=true! makes this complicated.

Reviewer: It would be good to avoid saying that things get complicated:
```suggestion
  Components of a function follow special variability rules where the \lstinline!GenerateEvents! annotation plays a central role, see \cref{discrete-time-expressions} for details.
```

If the function is called in a context where events will not be generated (e.g., inside another function without {\lstinline!GenerateEvents = true!}) no special action is needed.
\end{nonnormative}
\begin{example}
The annotation also impacts the variability, \cref{variability-of-expressions} consider a trivial case.
\begin{lstlisting}[language=modelica]
function greaterEqual
  input Real x1;
  input Real x2;
  output Boolean b;
algorithm

>   b :=  x1 >= x2;

Reviewer: Excessive space:
```suggestion
  b := x1 >= x2;
```

  annotation(GenerateEvents=true, LateInline=true);
end greaterEqual;

function greaterEqualWO
  input Real x1;
  input Real x2;
  output Boolean b;
algorithm
  b := x1 >= x2;
  annotation(LateInline=true);
end greaterEqualWO;

model M
  Boolean b1 = greaterEqual(time, 1);
  Boolean b2 = greaterEqualWO(time, 1) "Illegal";
  Boolean b3 = noEvent(greaterEqual(time, 1)) "Illegal";
  Boolean b4 = greaterEqualWO(if b1 then 2 else 0, 1);
  Real z = if greaterEqualWO(time, 1) then 2 else 1;
end M;

> 

Reviewer: For a more digestible example, couldn't we have the text explaining the above part of the listing here?

> 

Reviewer: For a more digestible example, couldn't we have the text explaining the above part of the listing here?
```suggestion
\end{lstlisting}

 \lstinline!M! there will be an event when \lstinline!time! becomes greater or equal to \lstinline!1!, and thus the discrete-time variable \lstinline!b1! can be bound to this function call even though it involves the non-discrete time variable \lstinline!time!.
 Both \lstinline!b2! and \lstinline!b3! are illegal, since the right hand sides have non-discrete-time variability.
 The variable \lstinline!z! is legal, since a Real variable can have non-discrete time variability.
 The variable \lstinline!b4! is legal, since the function inputs have discrete-time variability.
 
\begin{lstlisting}[language=modelica]
```

function bad
  input Real x1;
  output Integer i;
algorithm
  i := greaterEqualWO(x1, 1) then 2 else 1;
  annotation(GenerateEvents=true, LateInline=true);
end bad;

> 

Reviewer: It might be even better to split into two separate examples.

function saturatedSquare
  input Real x2;
  output Real y;
algorithm
  if x2 > 1 then
    y := 1;
  else

>     y := x2*x2;

Reviewer: We have a nice operator for the square:
```suggestion
    y := x2^2;
```

  end if;
end saturatedSquare;

function isBelowSat
  input Real x1, x2;
  output Boolean b;
algorithm
  b : = x1 < saturatedSquare(x2);
  annotation (GenerateEvents=true, LateInline=true);
end isBelowSat;
\end{lstlisting}

> In \lstinline!M! there will be an event when \lstinline!time! becomes greater or equal to \lstinline!1!, and thus the discrete-time variable \lstinline!b1! can be bound to this function call even though it involves the non-discrete time variable \lstinline!time!.
> Both \lstinline!b2! and \lstinline!b3! are illegal, since the right hand sides have non-discrete-time variability.
> The variable \lstinline!z! is legal, since a Real variable can have non-discrete time variability.
> The variable \lstinline!b4! is legal, since the function inputs have discrete-time variability.

Reviewer: To go with the change above:
```suggestion
```

The function \lstinline!bad! demonstrates that similar restrictions (as for \lstinline!b2! and \lstinline!b3!) apply inside functions with {\lstinline!GenerateEvents = true!}.
The function \lstinline!isBelowSat! demonstrates that it is possible to call functions that do not generate events (like \lstinline!saturatedSquare!) inside functions with {\lstinline!GenerateEvents = true!}.

> Combined the last two examples demonstrate that {\lstinline!GenerateEvents = true!} does not propagate to called functions.

Reviewer: Punctuation:
```suggestion
Combined, the last two examples demonstrate that {\lstinline!GenerateEvents = true!} does not propagate to called functions.
```

  Boolean b2 = greaterEqualWO(time, 1) "Illegal";
  Boolean b3 = noEvent(greaterEqual(time, 1)) "Illegal";
  Boolean b4 = greaterEqualWO(if b1 then 2 else 0, 1);
  Real z = if greaterEqualWO(time, 1) then 2 else 1;
end M;

function bad
  input Real x1;
  output Integer i;
algorithm
  i := greaterEqualWO(x1, 1) then 2 else 1;
  annotation(GenerateEvents=true, LateInline=true);
end bad;
\end{lstlisting}

In \lstinline!M!, there will be an event when \lstinline!time! becomes greater or equal to \lstinline!1!, and thus the discrete-time variable \lstinline!b1! can be bound to this function call even though it involves the non-discrete time variable \lstinline!time!.
Both \lstinline!b2! and \lstinline!b3! are illegal, since the right hand sides have non-discrete-time variability.
The variable \lstinline!z! is legal, since a \lstinline!Real! variable can have non-discrete time variability.
The variable \lstinline!b4! is legal, since the function inputs have discrete-time variability.
The function \lstinline!bad! demonstrates that similar restrictions (as for \lstinline!b2! and \lstinline!b3!) apply inside functions with {\lstinline!GenerateEvents = true!}.

>  

Author: ```suggestion

```
fix ws
